Trees
==================
CS146 - SJSU - September 1, 2015

### What is a tree? ###
- It's a collection of nodes.
- Each node contains data.
- Each child node can itself be the root of a subtree.
- A leag node is a node that has no children.

### Paths ###
- A path from `n1` to `nk` is the sequence of nodes in the tree from `n1` to `nk`.
- The depth of a node is the length of the path from the root to a given node.
- The height of the node is the length of the longest path from the root to a leaf node.
- The depth of a tree is the depth of the deepest node.

### Implementation ### - In general, a tree node can have an arbitrary number of child nodes.
- Therefore, each node should have:
	- a link to its first child, and
	- a link to its next sibling.

### Traversal ###
- Preorder:
	- First, visit a node.
	- Visit the node before visiting its children.
- Postorder:
	- First, visit the leaves of the tree.
	- Then, go towards the root.
- Inorder
	- Go through each node completely recursively.

### Binary Trees ##
- Trees that can have a maximum of two children.
- Binary search tree:
	- All values in the node's left subtree is less than the value of the node itself.
	- All the values in the node's right subtree is greater than the value of the node itself.
- Finding the minimum and maximum values in a BST is really easy.
	- The leftmost node has the minimum value.
	- The rightmost node has the maximum value.
	- Iterative solution is best here. Easy to understand and faster.

So now, let's check out a common interview question and see if we can design an algorithm which checks if a binary tree is a binary search tree:
```Java
boolean checkIfBST(Node root, int max, int min)
{
	if (root == null)
		return true;

	if (root.left != null) {
		if (root.left.data <= root.data && root.left.data <= min)
			checkIfBST(root.left, max, root.left.data);
		else 
			return false;
	}
	
	if (root.right != null) {
		if (root.right.data > root.data && root.right.data > max)
			checkIfBST(root.right, root.right.data, min);
		else 
			return false;	
	} else {
		return true;
	}
}
``` 
Cool. One other thing you want to have in a BST data structure is a search function (e.g. does the tree contain x)? We'll work on that next time.
