Trees (ctd)
==================
CS146 - SJSU - September 3, 2015

Will be referencing the Binary Tree Worksheet found [here](http://www.cs.sjsu.edu/~shaverdian/TreesWorksheet.pdf)

## Binary Search Tree ##
### Contains ###
- Does a BST contain a target value?
- Search recursively starting at the root node.
	- If the target value is < the node's value, the search the node's left subtree.
	- If the target value is > the node's value, the search the node's right subtree.
	- If the values are equal, then return true.
	- If you hit a null, the return false.

### Insert ###
- To insert a target value:
	- Proceed as if you are checking for contains.
- As you're recursively examining left/right, if you encounter null, that's where the new value should be inserted.
	- Create a new node and link to that new node in place of that null.
	- The new node is attcahed to the last visited node.
- If the target value is already there, either:
	- Insert a duplicate value into the tree.
	- Don't insert, but "update" the existing node. For instance, your node structure could have a quantity integer associated with it.

### Remove ###
- After removing a node from a BST, the remaining nodes must still be in order.
- One child case: The target node to be removed has one child node.
	- Put the child in its place.
- Two child case: The target node to be removed has two children.
	- This is a complicated case
	- Recall what happens when you remove a list node.
		- The replacement node is the node that is immediately after
		- A somewhat convoluted way to do this is to replace the old node with the successor node's value. Then, remove the old node.
	- The successor node is the node that is immediately after the deleted node in the sorted order (right subtree)
	- Replace the target node's value with the successor's value.
	- Remove the successor.

Kind of like this if we're removing 2:
```
    6
   / \
  2   8
 / \ 
1   5
   / \
  3   4
```
Would become:
```
    6
   / \
  3   8
 / \ 
1   5 
     \
      4
```

	 6
   /   \
  3     8
 / \ 
1   5 
     \
      4


Okay, now we're moving forward into the worksheet.

1) Okay, recalled.

2)
1. Max # of leaves = 2^(h)
2. Max # of nodes = 2^(h+1) - 1
3. Min # of leaves = 1
4. Min # of nodes = h + 1

3) For n nodes, we cannot do better than O(?) height, and we want to avoid O(?) height. 

4) Algorithm to find the height of a BST:
```Java
int getHeight(Node root)
{
	if (node.left != null) {
		int heightLeft = getHeight(node.left)
	}

	if (node.right != null) {
		int heightRight = getHeight(node.right)
	}

	if (heightLeft > heightRight)
		return heightLeft + 1;
	else
		return heightRight + 1;
}
```

5) 1st one, yes. Second one, no.

6) Replace with its right child.

7) Replace with 7.

Alright, now let's check if a given BST is balanecd. For the purpose of this question, a balanced tree is defined to be atree such that the heights of the two subtrees of any node never differ by more than one:
```Java
```

Given a sorted (increasing order) array with unique integer elements, write an algorithm to create a BST with minimal height:
```Java
Node arrToBST(int arr[])
{
	mid = arr.length / 2;
	Node root = new Node;
	root.data = arr[mid];
	int i;
	for (i = mid, i >= 0, i--) {	
``` 

Eh, we'll wrap this up eventually. Maybe. We'll see.
