Binary Search Trees (ctd)
==================
CS146 - SJSU - September 8, 2015

### Implementation ###

This is picking up from last class. First, let's look at the getHeight algorithm:
```Java
int getHeight(Node root)
{
	if (root == null)
		return -1;

	if (root.height != null)
		return root.height;
	else {	
		root.height = max(getHeight(root.left),
						  getHeight(root.right)) + 1;
		return root.height;
	}
}
```
Now, we want to get the height of both subtrees and compare them to check for balance.
```Java
boolean isBalanced(Node root)
{
	int difference = getHeight(root.left) - getHeight(root.right);

	if (difference > 1 || difference < -1)
		return false;
	else
		return isBalanced(root.left) && isBalanced(root.right);	
}
```
Unfortunately, this is repeating a ton of work calculating the height on the leaves further down. So, let's examine how we could improve this algorithm. One way I would do it is to add a height integer to the Node class to keep track of the heights and not have to recalculate every time we recurse:
```Java
int getHeight(Node root)
{
	if (root == null)
		return -1;

	if (root.height != null)
		return root.height;
	else {	
		root.height = max(getHeight(root.left),
						  getHeight(root.right)) + 1;
		return root.height;
	}
}

boolean isBalanced(Node root)
{
	int difference = getHeight(root.left) - getHeight(root.right);

	if (difference > 1 || difference < -1)
		return false;
	else
		return isBalanced(root.left) && isBalanced(root.right);	
}
```

### AVL Trees ###
An AVL tree is a BST tree with a balance condition: for each node of the BST, the heights of the left and right subtrees can differ by at most 1.

- We need to rebalance the tree whenever the balance condition is violated
	- Check for balance after every insertion and deletion
- Assume the tree was balanced before an insertion
- If it beame unbalanced due to an insertion, then the inserted node must have caused some nodes between itself and the root to be unbalanced
- And unbalanced node must have the height of one of its subtrees exactly 2 greater than the height of the other subtree

Check out her slides for the algorithm to balance an AVL tree after an insertion. There are four possible cases. It narrows it down to those cases and applies functions to do the proper rotations. It's very specific.
