Structures for Real Life Computer Architecture
==================
CS146 - SJSU - September 10, 2015

### M-ary Trees ###
Let's just think about data access on a larger level. Fetching data from a register is virtually instantaneus, but fetching data from disk can take like eight seconds. It's ridiculous. But, a lot of data we'll be working with will be stored on those fat disks. So, what can we do to improve this data fetch?

First off, we can increase the branching factor of our trees. That means that instead of working with binary trees, we can have each node use 5+ children! This is called an `m-ary tree`. 

So, between each node, the keys will be between those nodes' values. These m-ary trees are a little bit complicated with how they're sorted. Review her slides to see exactly how they work.

### B-Trees ###
B-Trees must always be at least half full. This keeps data blocks together on disk, minimizing the amount of time used to move around the disk to fetch data. Internal nodes only contain keys to help search operations. The actual values are stored in the leaves.

This is a clever way of doing things. Review her slides to see how the insertion and deletion algorithms works. All in all, this sort of alogirthm has a great amortized runtime.

### The Priority Queue ADT ###
Just a queue that can be sorted by priority. Sort of a triage queue. Inserts and deletes take `O(log(n)) time on average.

### Binary Heap ###
- A binary heap is a binary tree that is complete
	- All the levels of the tree have leaves
- Conceptually, a heap is a binary tree
- But we can implement it as an array
- For any element in array position `i`:
	- Left child is at position `2i`
	- Right child is at position `2i + 1`
	- Parent is at position `i/2`
- This is nice because it's very easy to program with

#### Heap-Order Priority ####
- We want to find the min value very quickly
- Make the min value always at the root!
	- Apply this rule also to the roots of the subtrees

- There are only two properties:
	- Tree must be complete
	- The minimum value must be at the root of the tree (same goes for subtrees)

Check out slides for insertion and deletion algorithms. Again, they're relatively complicated and pictures help a lot.
